a key to seo is setting realistic
expectations if you want to rank at the
top you should know this
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down how much time
you should spend on seo in order to rank
number one
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
if you want to grow slow and steady
spend three to six hours doing research
and creating content per week
spend four hours in competitive research
per month to identify new opportunities
with keywords you're still not targeting
but that aren't too competitive i want
you to spend another four hours
optimizing for technical seo per month
and you can do this through the uber
says site audit report and if you want
to grow aggressively right not slow and
steady but you want to go aggressively i
want you to spend three hours a day
doing research and creating content
spend a minimum of one hour per day
doing link building and content
promotion
if you create a lot of content but you
don't ever promote it you're just not
going to get the traffic no matter how
good your content is
and then you need to spend at least
three hours per week writing emails for
your email subscribers and scheduling
them so then that way you can get more
people to read your articles which helps
increase social shares and that also
helps increase backlinks
i want you to also spend one hour a week
creating new lead magnets to grow your
email subscriber base
so that's like a guide to seo or how to
get your dog to lose weight in 30 days
those are all examples of lead magnets
and you would collect emails and you can
use tools like hello bar for that you
can use tools like opt-in monster for
that
and you want to spend a minimum of three
hours creating and scheduling content
for your strongest social media
platforms
right these are the platforms that
you're already doing well on and you
want to focus your attention on that you
could spend all your time on all the
platforms out there but we all know
there's not enough time in the day for
that
so do you want to know how i spend my
time on seo with the site that's already
established
well the way i spend my time is
every single week
i go on to uber suggests and i look for
keyword opportunities so an uber says i
can type in my domain name neil patel
and there's a report that looks at
competitor domains and it shows me all
the other competing domains the keywords
that i rank on that they also rank for
these are competing domains right
because if we both share a lot of common
keywords that means we're in similar
industries then i also look for all the
keywords that they rank for that i don't
rank for
and then i start looking at those
keywords and seeing if they're related
enough for me to create content around
and then i start creating content around
those pages and if you also have
established website like me the other
big group of time that i spent a lot of
energy on is i go into google search
console and i look for all the pages
that are getting less traffic quarter
over quarter
year over year
and if i can see trends of pages
declining in traffic i look for the
keywords that are actually declining
related to those pages and if that
keyword was never related to the page in
the first place i don't worry about it
but if that keyword is related i go and
google that term i look to see all the
people who rank above me and i try to
create content that's way better than i
try to create a user experience that's
better than them
i really focus on going above and beyond
and being better than my competition the
next thing that i spend time on is
i make sure that my site is buttoned up
from on-page seo perspective it doesn't
matter
how much content creation that you have
or how much link building generation
that you're doing if google can't crawl
your website you're screwed so i just
make sure that my site's buttoned up and
if you create a project in uber says
it'll automatically run a weekly site
audit and tell you when there's new
errors that you need a fix and it shows
them to you so just fix those in
priority because the ones that uber says
presents first are the ones that you
should fix first because they'll have
the biggest impact in growing your
traffic and the last thing that i spend
my time on a weekly basis and these are
the main tasks there's a lot of other
you know ancillary seo tests that i work
on for my site but these are the main
things
and the last thing that i spend my time
on when it comes to seo believe it or
not
is collecting tons and tons of email
i found that if i build a brand they
call it the rule of 7 to marketing when
someone sees or interacts with your
brand seven times they're much more
likely to evangelize it buy your product
tell the people about it and i found
that over the years if you build a brand
you rank higher when it comes to seo
because google trusts brands they don't
want people to put out false information
that can hurt others so by collecting
emails putting out more lead magnets
maybe blocking off part of my blog post
and saying put in your email to read the
rest by putting out free tools that
allow me to collect emails and then
sending out email blasts so then that
way when i create new content and let
people know about it
this allows me to generate much much
more traffic
now one thing that my team spends a lot
of time on that i don't but this has
helped my rankings
is my team goes and updates a lot of my
old content and they just make sure it's
fresh and up-to-date and so relevant
this isn't about word count or deleting
posts this is just about making sure
they're relevant of course if
something's really outdated like let's
say about myspace the social network
that doesn't really exist we'll just
delete that but generally speaking i
have a team of around six seven people
that just spend time updating old
content to make sure it's so relevant
because we don't want anyone to read
anything that's old or outdated that can
hurt them
and by doing that we've continually
maintained and grown our seo traffic and
that's how established websites should
continually spend their time you can
also add in a lot of other tasks but
that's where we spend the majority of
our time to maintain and grow our
traffic
if you need help doing this check out my
ad agency np digital if you enjoyed this
video like it share if you have any
questions leave a comment below i'm here
to answer and help you out